---
layout: default
title: Defending the Undefendable - Chris Cantwell
visible: 0
---
<div class="article">
<h2>Walter Block Defends the Undefendable</h2>
<h3>The Chris Cantwell Podcast Episode</h3>
<p>In my <a href="https://neoliberalcaucus.github.io/2020/06/17/chris-cantwell.html">previous article on Cantwell</a>, I went up to September 2015, when Cantwell first openly embraced White Nationalism on the neo-Nazi podcast, The Daily Shoah, calling his "ideal society" one which excludes non-whites. Before that, Cantwell had supported terroristic violence, included celebrating the assassination attempt on Gabby Giffords and <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20140301182310/http://www.christophercantwell.com/2013/11/05/at-least-paul-ciancia-wasnt-a-sheep/">calling the&nbsp;shooting</a> of three TSA agents and a schoolteacher "inevitable, necessary, and just" and hoping that that next time the terrorist "strike[s] a more debilitating blow".</p>
<p>Between September 2015 and April 2016, the frequency of these violent and racist views only became more common. On December 3, 2015, Cantwell <a href="https://neoliberalcaucus.github.io/images/cantwell_14_words.png">posted</a>, "14, sure. 88, not so much" (referring to the 14-word Nazi slogan). On a <a href="https://ia803108.us.archive.org/1/items/RadicalAgendaArchive/EP121%20-%20Discrimination.mp3">podcast episode</a> on March 28, 2016, Cantwell said, "I don't argue with leftists, I propagandize for their fucking extermination" going on to calling liberals&nbsp;"helicopter-bait" and "oven-worthy".</p>
<p>Most libertarians who had not already ostracized Cantwell seemed to do so during this period.</p>
<p>Block was not one of them.&nbsp;On April 4, 2016, Walter Block went on Chris Cantwell's Radical Agenda podcast. Below are some excerpts from <a href="https://ia803108.us.archive.org/1/items/RadicalAgendaArchive/EP124%20-%20Walter%20Block.mp3">the episode</a>.</p>
<p>Block took the position that leftists should be expelled from universities for wanting racists and sexists to be expelled:</p>
<p>CANTWELL: <em>"There was a bill pending before the legislature here in New Hampshire, in front of the state legislature in Concord,&nbsp; about free speech on campus, and I actually went and I said to them, and this is specifically pertaining to state colleges and universities, and I said, 'Maybe free speech sounds like a good idea, but maybe we should start expelling some of these left-wingers. Maybe you have these people who come in here and want to turn New Hampshire into a communist state, maybe these people should be kicked out, because we know on the opposite end of it, they're going to kick out anyone who they deem to be racist, or sexist, or homophobic, and maybe it's worth heading them off at the pass.' What do you think?"</em></p>
<p>BLOCK: <em>"Yes, sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. I mean, in the fields like STEM - science, technology, engineering, mathematics, economics - they've taken surveys and you get something like 80% left and, I don't know, 15% middle, and 5% right. But when you go to the social sciences, which are more relevant to politics and economic policy - sociology, history, psychology, places like that - it's like 95% left, and 4% middle, and 1% right. I mean, the universities are totally owned subsidiaries of the left."</em></p>
<p>Block also determined that one of the benefits of his Libertarians for Trump group was that Trump might put Cantwell on his council of economic advisors:</p>
<p>BLOCK: <em>"One of the benefits of having Libertarians for Donald Trump is maybe we can get a little bit of his ear. Maybe after he is elected, he will put someone like you or I in the council of economic advisors"</em></p>
<p>Cantwell then discussed fascism. Despite Cantwell taking views that would presumably be horrid to any libertarian, saying he might support a dictatorship like Pinochet's to stop the left, Block only "hope[d that] we don't have to go all the way to a Pinochet":</p>
<p>CANTWELL:<em>&nbsp;"Some people call him a fascist, right? They say, 'Oh, he's a fascist, he's a dictator, he's literally Hitler' and all this, and sometimes I say to myself, if you're going to go and call this guy a fascist, I might start warming up to fascism. Maybe the best thing we can hope for in this time is to have an iron-fisted ruler to smash the communists.</em>"</p>
<p>BLOCK: <em>[laughs]</em></p>
<p>CANTWELL: <em>"And sometimes, we started joking about, maybe not even joking, about like Pinochet and throwing people out of helicopters here, Walter, because I feel like the left in this country has been so, I mean, you see Black Lives Matter, they're burning cities to the ground, there's riots, Lauren Southern got urine thrown on her in Canada, these people are disrupting Trump rallies, assaulting people, there's all of this stuff going on, and sometimes I'm like, maybe that's the best thing that we could have, is just a ruthless iron-fisted dictator to stop the madness."</em></p>
<p>BLOCK: <em>"Well, I hope we don't have to go all the way to a Pinochet, but better Pinochet I guess than Allende, who was trying to make the country into a Venezuela or North Korea. It's sort of like, which is worse, the frying pan or the fire? I guess the fire is worse, but still, there's not much of a choice there. You're quite right about that Chicago riot. See, what they're trying to do is to do to Chicago what they do on college campuses. If you go on a college campus and you say something that the left doesn't like, they don't listen and disagree and have a debate with you, what they do is they try to shut you down, they try to shut you up. They say, 'This is not free speech, this is fascist speech' or whatever."</em></p>
<p>Block went on to say that Obama "is a fascist" and "so what we have with Bernie, and Hillary, and Barack, and all those people is really fascism. Now, I don't think Donald Trump is like that. I don't think he favors regulation, look, he was a businessman." This was based on his argument that government regulation is fascism.</p>
<p>When Block finished up his period on the episode, he said "it was a very enjoyable hour, I think we are on the same wavelength" and "I would be delighted to be on your show again."</p>
<p>Anyone sticking around would have gotten Cantwell's less restrained self.</p>
<p>CALLER: <em>"Do you think that conservatives should up it a lot more and just kind of go full-on 1488 and just tell the left to fuck off every time that they try and pull that guilt-tripping bullshit?"</em></p>
<p>CANTWELL: <em>"I think they should go full-on 1433, not a big fan of the Adolf Hitler personally, I'm all fine with the racial stuff, but I don't like the socialism. ... What you've had is the left going further and further left... Fuck these people, chuck them out of helicopters, load them up into gas chambers, I'm sick of this crap."</em></p>
<p>(1433 being a mix of the 14-word Nazi slogan and 33 being for "Christopher Cantwell")</p>
<p>And in case any viewers were under the impression that Cantwell was joking, Cantwell made sure to say otherwise:</p>
<p>CANTWELL: <em>"I'm telling you, I know some of you think that we're kidding, but I'm not, about the helicopters."</em></p>
<p>At the end, Cantwell reminded his viewers to tune in for his next episode, with his guest Richard Spencer.</p>
</div>